a very common problem when spraying
metallics is modeling our metallic
flakes that look uneven so today I'd
like to do a short video on a solution
to that problem that has always worked
for me and that is a miss coat drop coat
or a control coat the same method can be
used with base coat clear coat or single
stage but single stage you have to time
it just right too early and it just
melts in too late and you get dry spray
I've seen others decrease the air
pressure but I think increasing it a bit
works better so you can open the fan of
it stand back and really give it a Miss
coat so let's give it a try after
allowing your very last coat to tack up
just a bit and you can test it by
touching the the tape near some heavy
spray and making sure that it's sticky
what you're gonna do is back off turn up
the pressure up it and you're just gonna
basically crop-dust this thing so you're
gonna stand back a little bit higher
pressure and just give it a nice mist
coat or a dust coat
and that's it now we're just going to
let this dry come back give it a couple
coats of clear and we'll be finished
after a couple of coats of clear this is
a finished panel in review in order to
cure modeling or tiger stripes or
anything like that the uneven
distribution of metallic flakes on your
very last coat you're gonna spray it as
you normally would give it a few minutes
three four five minutes to tack up get
sticky then increase your pressure on
your spray gun back off a little bit and
give it a nice mist coat to evenly
distribute those metallic flakes and get
them to stand up a little bit and look
nice and even across the whole panel
then give it about a half hour to dry or
even more and give it a couple coats of
clear so I hope you enjoyed this video
on how to cure modeling or tiger stripes
or metallic flakes that aren't behaving
themselves and if you did and you'd like
to get my latest videos don't forget to
hit the subscribe button